Headline: Canucks Score Late Goal to Clinch Thrilling Victory Over Oilers

Vancouver, BC - The Vancouver Canucks defeated the Edmonton Oilers 4-3 in a nail-biting contest at Rogers Arena last night. 
Elias Pettersson scored the game-winning goal with just 15 seconds left on the clock, sending the home crowd into a frenzy. 
Goalie Thatcher Demko made several key saves throughout the game to keep the Canucks in contention. 
The win moves Vancouver into second place in the Pacific Division standings. 
The team will travel to Calgary for their next game on Tuesday.

Oilers hold off Canucks in Game 7, advance to Western Final
Nugent-Hopkins has goal, assist for Edmonton; Boeser misses game with injury for Vancouver

VANCOUVER -- Ryan Nugent-Hopkins had a goal and an assist, and the Edmonton Oilers eliminated the Vancouver Canucks with a 3-2 win in Game 7 of the Western Conference Second Round at Rogers Arena on Monday.

"It's something you kind of dream of as a kid (scoring in Game 7)," said Nugent-Hopkins, who is from Burnaby, British Columbia. "It truly hasn't sunk in yet that it's here because you're so focused on playing, but my brother and I and kids in the neighborhood, hours on end playing road hockey, and I’m definitely proud to do it with this group.

"I'm just happy to get the win, but it's cool to do it here."

Zach Hyman scored his NHL-leading 11th goal of the Stanley Cup Playoffs, and Leon Draisaitl had an assist to extend his postseason-opening point streak to 12 games for Edmonton, which is the No. 2 seed from the Pacific Division. Stuart Skinner made 15 saves, and Evan Bouchard had two assists.

"It's exciting to beat a great Vancouver team," Oilers captain Connor McDavid said. "They're a really great team. It wasn't too long ago, a couple of months ago, we were sitting here doing an interview talking about losing 8-1 (in the season opener). They had our number and it feels good to come out on top. It was a tight series, a passionate series, both fan bases going crazy. It's fun to come out on top."

The Oilers will play the Dallas Stars, who eliminated the Colorado Avalanche in six games, in the Western Conference Final. Game 1 of that best-of-7 series will be in Dallas on Thursday.

"They're a great team, too," McDavid said. "It's the conference finals, you're going to have to play a great team, and they certainly are. They're deep, they're as deep a team as you're going to find in the NHL. Four lines, six [defensemen], they got a great goaltender. It will be a great test, but we're looking forward to it."

Conor Garland and Filip Hronek scored in the third period, and Arturs Silovs made 26 saves for Vancouver, which was the No. 1 seed from the Pacific. Forward Brock Boeser, who led the Canucks with seven goals this postseason, did not play because of an undisclosed injury.

"This team brought respect back to this city and this jersey, let's face it," Canucks coach Rick Tocchet said. "There's no quit in this team. I’m really proud of the guys."

Edmonton outshot Vancouver 13-2 in the first period but couldn’t solve Silovs. He did a full split to make a blocker save on Brett Kulak's rebound attempt at 1:26, stopped Hyman on partial breakaway at 4:54, and denied Connor Brown on a short-handed breakaway with 41 seconds left in the period.

"'Arty' played his [butt] off for us," Tocchet said. "What a playoff for that kid and his growth, so there's a lot of positives out of that."

The Canucks failed to generate a shot on goal during a four-minute power play late in the first period that extended into the second for 14 seconds. The Oilers then broke the ice a little more than a minute later.

Play Video
EDM@VAN R2, Gm7: Ceci blasts game's opening goal in 2nd

Cody Ceci put Edmonton ahead 1-0 at 1:16 with a shot from the right point through traffic that beat Silovs over his left shoulder.

Hyman made it 2-0 at 5:50 by deflecting Bouchard's shot from a similar spot past the blocker of Silovs.

Nugent-Hopkins then scored on a power play to push it to 3-0 at 15:22. He beat a lunging Silovs from the bottom of the left circle after Bouchard's one-timer caromed to him off the end boards.

"[Silovs is] so quick that you have to put it in a corner or else he's just simply going to get it," Nugent-Hopkins said. "He doesn't let those through. So, yeah, we respect the hell out of that guy. He battled all series and made it tough on us."

Edmonton finished 1-for-2 on the power play while Vancouver was 0-for-3. The Oilers didn't allow a power-play goal in the final four games of the series (14-for-14).

"It's something that we take so much pride in all season and this is why, because we know that it can make the difference in games like this," Nugent-Hopkins said. "Power play has got to show up and score some timely goals, and the PK has got to stop them. We got so many great killers, guys that can do the job on a power play, so it can be the difference-maker and we're proud that it was tonight."

Garland pulled Vancouver to within 3-1 at 11:27 of the third period, snapping a shot from the left circle under the blocker of Skinner after Ryan McLeod turned the puck over while trying to clear the zone.

Hronek cut it 3-2 at 15:24 with a one-timer through traffic from just inside the blue line.

"We weren't going to go quietly," Garland said. "We felt like we had a chance. It's hard to play with the lead in the playoffs. Human nature kicks in. Nobody wants to be the guy to make a mistake and sometimes teams sit back, and we knew we were going to get our looks, just had to execute. Just one shot short."

J.T. Miller got one last shot off with 13 seconds left but it was blocked in the slot.

"Hard-fought game, hard-fought series. We were a bounce away," Miller said. "I just love this team, man. I just love that we don't give up ever. It's a good sign."

Oilers goalie Calvin Pickard wasn't sure he'd ever play an NHL playoff game. 

At 32 years of age and without a starting role, his chances were limited, but the netminder wasn't about to give up. 


“You’re always believing, you’re hoping. But now that it’s finally here, it’s exciting," Pickard said.

His persistence paid off. 

Pickard made his first start in an NHL playoff game Tuesday, backstopping Edmonton to a 3-2 win over the Vancouver Canucks in their second-round playoff series.

He replaced Edmonton's usual starter Stuart Skinner, who allowed four goals on 15 shots in Edmonton’s Game 3 loss on Sunday.

“(Pickard) looked like a guy who had played 100 playoff games," said Oilers head coach Kris Knoblauch. "Composed, really solid, seeing the puck really well.”

Now in his 13th season of professional hockey, Pickard signed with Edmonton as a free agent in July 2022, but has spent much of his tenure playing for the club's American Hockey League affiliate, the Bakersfield Condors. 

He was elevated to the NHL team's backup role in November when the Oilers sent struggling netminder Jack Campbell down to the AHL. 

Backing up hasn't come with consistent ice time, though. Before taking over for Skinner in Game 3 on Sunday, Pickard's last appearance came on April 18. 

Knoblauch said he's been impressed by the goalie, even when he wasn't playing. 

“Continually, his starts have been solid, no matter how long he sat, a week, two weeks," the coach said. "We have a lot of confidence in him and he came up big tonight.” 

Pickard was tested before the first intermission when Evander Kane was handed a double minor for high-sticking.

After an anemic start to the extended man advantage, Vancouver peppered the goalie with a flurry of chances in tight. Pickard withstood the barrage, even after being knocked down and forced to make stops from a seated position as Conor Garland looked to poke a puck in from the blue paint.

Edmonton went 1-for-3 on the power play Tuesday while Vancouver was 0-for-3.

Staying level headed in Tuesday's game wasn't easy, Pickard admitted. 

“I was trying to channel my emotions as much as I could," he said. "Obviously it’s tough, it’s a high-stakes game. Obviously it’s a huge game for us. But I felt comfortable right from the get go.”

The goalie stopped 19 of 21 shots in a victory that levelled the best-of-seven Western Conference series at 2-2. Game 5 is set for Thursday in Vancouver. 

The game wasn't without dramatics.

Leon Draisaitl opened the scoring for the Oilers on a first-period power play and Ryan Nugent-Hopkins added a tally late in the second period.

Vancouver refused to relent, with Garland cutting the deficit to 2-1 midway through the third and Dakota Joshua burying the equalizer 18:19 into the final frame. 

Evan Bouchard played hero for Edmonton, scoring the game winner with 38.1 seconds left on the game clock.

Bouchard's defensive partner Mattias Ekholm wasn't surprised by the late strike.

“It was kind of like when they scored, we played too good of a game to not win this one," he said. "At least I was feeling that we’re going to get it, if not now, then in the overtime.”

Arturs Silovs stopped 27 of 30 shots for Vancouver.

It was another solid performance for the rookie goalie, said Canucks head coach Rick Tocchet. 

Others on the team didn't show up in the same way, he added. 

“We’ve been a resilient group all year," Tocchet said. "But we need five or six guys to get going here. I mean, it’s the Stanley Cup playoffs. Some guys, I don’t know if they thought it was the playoffs. We can’t play with 12 guys. We’ve got to figure it out quick.”

INS AND OUTS

Canucks defenceman Carson Soucy sat out after being handed a one-game suspension for cross-checking Connor McDavid after the final buzzer in Game 3. Noah Juulsen took his spot in the lineup.

PICKARD'S PERSISTENCE

Pickard was originally picked 49th overall by the Colorado Avalanche in the 2010 draft and has played 139 regular-season NHL games for six different teams. The six-foot-one, 206-pound goalie from Moncton, N.B., signed with the Oilers as a free agent in July 2022 and made 23 appearances for the NHL club this season, going 12-7-1 with a 2.45 goals-against average, a .909 save percentage and one shutout.

"I know I can play at this level and this year I proved it to myself and everybody around me," Pickard said after morning skate Tuesday.